Genesis Construction specializes in building habitable worlds using the economies of scale available to the galaxies largest construction company.  Scale is a real issue when an entire planet is to be Terraformed: no other project done by human kind is larger than taking a planet from inhospitable to a tropical paradise.

While each planet has it unique challenges, the following is intended to give a prospective customer a decent overview of the Terraforming process.  These steps have been refined over the years by Genesis Construction to give our customers the best planet possible for the lowest cost.

Terraforming 101

“Location, Location, Location.”  These ‘three rules’ of real-estate are just as true in space as they are on a planet.  Selecting a planet at the appropriate distance from its local Sun vastly reduces the construction costs and its ongoing maintenance costs.  While Genesis Construction can Terraform planets that are further than ideal from the local Sun, the energy costs to keep a world warm enough both during the Terraforming process and later as it is inhabited make projects of this style very expensive.  In general, a planet needs to get about the same level of solar radiation as Earth gets from its Sun.  Our goal is to make a ‘solar powered’ world that is self-maintaining for the life of the local Sun your chosen planet orbits.

"Sun is both Friend and Foe".  The same solar radiation that warms a planet to support life can also kill live on the planet without a proper magnetic field.  Earth’s magnetic field has acted as that shield that has protected life on the planet for thousands of years.  It’s a good system and one we imitate in our Terraforming process when a target planet does not have an adequate magnetic field.  This is an area where substantial savings can be had: if you find a planet with a healthy magnetic field, this process can be skipped.  When we create a magnetic field for a planet, we always make it twice as strong as the Earths.  We have found that most stars as not as well behaved as Earths Sun, so the extra protection of a stronger magnetic field is a must.
